Source: Freddie Mac Seller/Servicer Guide  
Section: 5104.1 - Age of Verifications and Age of Documentation When Data Used for Loan Product Advisor® Assessments  
Effective Date: 08/06/2025  

Condition #1:  
Age of verifications.  
Verifications of information used to evaluate the Borrower’s creditworthiness must be dated no more than 120 calendar days before the Note Date.  
Verifications subject to this requirement include verification of:  
- Employment  
- Existence of the business for a self-employed Borrower  
- Income, including current receipt of income  
- Source of funds  
- Payment history  

For an employed Borrower, the Seller must also confirm the Borrower’s employment by obtaining a 10-day pre-closing verification in accordance with Section 5302.2(d).  

Certain Mortgages are subject to additional age of documentation requirements. Refer to the following Guide sections for details:  
- Section 4402.1(c) for Seller-Owned Converted Mortgages and Seller-Owned Modified Mortgages.  
- Section 5302.2(a) for year-to-date paystubs.  
- Section 5302.4(b) for tax returns.  

*For the purposes of this section, all references to the Note Date refer, as applicable, to:*  
- Effective Date of Permanent Financing for Construction Conversion and Renovation Mortgages.  
- Modification date for Seller-Owned Modified Mortgages.  
- Conversion Date for Seller-Owned Converted Mortgages.  
- Assumption agreement date for Mortgages that have been assumed.  

---

Condition #2:  
Age of documentation when data used for Loan Product Advisor assessments.  
For Mortgages when data is used for the Loan Product Advisor assessment and a verification report is obtained, the expiration of the verification report reflected in feedback messaging on the Last Feedback Certificate complies with the requirement of Section 5104.1(a) above.  

Refer to the following table for Guide sections related to verification report requirements for Mortgages using automated assessment:  

Verification requirements for Mortgages using automated assessment:  
| Verification report requirements | Guide section |  
| -------------------------------- | -------------- |  
| Mortgages using
