Source: Freddie Mac Seller/Servicer Guide
Section: 5102.1 - Borrower Eligibility and Risk Class
Effective Date: 08/06/2025

Condition #1:
Accept Mortgages.
An Accept Mortgage is a Loan Product Advisor Mortgage that receives a Risk Class of Accept.
For Mortgages with a Risk Class of Accept on the Last Feedback Certificate, the Seller is eligible for relief from representations and warranties for creditworthiness and layering of risk when all of the requirements below are met:
- The Mortgage and the Seller comply with all requirements of the Purchase Documents, including Section 4201.10 related to no circumstances adversely affecting value of the Mortgage and this Chapter 5101.
- The Last Feedback Certificate matches the terms of the transaction delivered to Freddie Mac, except as stated in Section 5101.3(b) and Chapter 4602 for Construction Conversion and Renovation Mortgages when resubmission to Loan Product Advisor is not required.
- The property address returned on the Last Feedback Certificate is the address of the Mortgaged Premises.
- The Mortgage is not a Seller-Owned Modified Mortgage, unless the Seller-Owned Modified Mortgage is a Home Possible® Accept Mortgage.
- The Mortgage is not a Seller-Owned Converted Mortgage.

Condition #2:
Caution Mortgages.
A Caution Mortgage is a Loan Product Advisor Mortgage that receives a Risk Class of Caution.
For Mortgages with a Risk Class of Caution reflected on the Last Feedback Certificate to be eligible for sale to Freddie Mac, the Seller must:
- Manually underwrite the Mortgage in accordance with Section 5102.2(b).
- Deliver the Mortgage as a Caution Mortgage with the Key Number in accordance with Section 6302.10.

Notes:
- The Risk Class on the Last Feedback Certificate establishes the extent of underwriting required.
- Loan Product Advisor will return a Risk Class of Accept or Caution based on its analysis of the data.
