Source: Freddie Mac Seller/Servicer Guide  
Section: 5302.4 - Tax Returns and Tax Return Information: Documentation and Verification Requirements  
Effective Date: 05/07/2025  

This section contains information related to:  
- Tax return requirements  
- Age of tax return requirements  
- Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax transcripts  
- When tax returns are required  
- Unreimbursed employee expenses reported on tax returns  

Under certain circumstances, the Taxpayer First Act requires that the taxpayer’s consent be obtained prior to the use and disclosure of the taxpayer’s tax return or tax return information to a third party.  
If taxpayer consent is required under the Act, Sellers must ensure that the form of consent obtained from the taxpayer permits the use and sharing of the tax return or tax return information with and by any actual or potential owners of the Mortgage, as well as their service providers, successors and assigns.  
The signed consent form must be obtained in a timely manner and placed in the Mortgage file in accordance with Section 3301.11.

---

(a) Tax return requirements  

Tax returns must be:  
- The Borrower's signed copy of the U.S. federal income tax return(s) that were most recently filed with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).  
- A complete tax return, including all applicable schedules and forms (which includes all W-2s, K-1s and 1099s).

**Acceptable alternatives for Borrower’s signature:**  
- Evidence that the tax returns were filed electronically (e.g., signed Form 8879, IRS e-file Signature Authorization, or equivalent), or  
- Tax transcripts that validate the information on the unsigned tax returns, or  
- A completed IRS Form 4506-C signed by the Borrower, or an alternate form acceptable to the IRS that authorizes the release of comparable tax information to a third party.

---

(b) Age of tax return requirements  

The most recent federal income tax return is the last tax return, individual and/or business, that was filed with the IRS by the Borrower and, if applicable, the Borrower’s business.  
Sellers are encouraged to always confirm with the Borrower that the tax returns provided are the most recently filed with the IRS.

The Seller must determine the stable monthly income, which may require additional documentation and analysis.  
Refer to **Section 5304.1(g)** for additional guidance about self-employed income and supporting documentation when the tax returns for the most recent calendar year are not yet available.

At a minimum, the following date and documentation requirements must be met, based on the Application Received Date and the Note Date for the Mortgage:

---

(i) For Mortgages with Note Dates on or after November 1, 2024  

| Application Received Date | Note Date | Requirements |
|---------------------------|-----------|---------------|
| Before April 15, 2025 | On or after November 1, 2024 | Before May 31, 2025 | Most recent federal income tax return(s) filed with the IRS. The most recent tax return(s) must be no older than 2023. |
| On or after April 15, 2025 | Before May 31, 2025 | If the Borrower has not filed the 2024 tax return(s) with the IRS: The most recent tax return(s) must be no older than 2023, and the Seller must obtain: <br> - IRS confirmation verifying tax transcript(s) are not yet available for the tax return(s) (individual, and business, if applicable) from the 2024 tax year; and <br> - Evidence of completed IRS tax filing extension(s) for the 2024 tax year (e.g., IRS Form 4868 and/or 7004). |
| On or after May 31, 2025 | Before November 1, 2025 | All |
| On or after November 1, 2025 | — | The most recent tax return(s) must be no older than 2024, regardless of other factors such as tax filing extension status or IRS filing deadline relief status. |

1. If the IRS extends the tax filing due date, the IRS confirmation is required for Mortgages with Application Received Dates on or after the IRS income tax filing due date, or May 31, 2025, whichever occurs first; and Note Dates on or after the last day of the month following the IRS income tax filing due date, or June 30, 2025, whichever occurs first.  
2. Alternative documentation is acceptable in lieu of the IRS confirmation that tax transcript(s) are not yet available for the business tax return(s), as follows:  
   - Confirmation business tax returns were filed after IRS filing due date for the prior year(s) (e.g., 2023 business tax return in file was signed later in the year), or documentation from a third-party tax preparer confirming the 2024 business return has not yet been filed; and  
   - Documented evidence of continued income stability using at least one of the examples listed in **Section 5304.1(g)** in the row labeled “Business and/or individual tax return(s) - most recent calendar year not yet available.”  
3. If the IRS extends the tax filing due date, evidence of the completed IRS tax filing extension is required for Mortgages with Application Received Dates on or after the IRS income tax filing due date and Note Dates on or after the last day of the month following the IRS income tax filing due date.

---

(ii) For Mortgages with Note Dates before November 1, 2024 and Settlement Dates on or after February 5, 2025  

Apply the age of tax return and other documentation requirements as shown in the table in **Section 5302.4(b)(i)**; however, the prior calendar year may replace the calendar year shown in the table.

---

(c) IRS tax transcripts  

If a tax transcript is obtained and contains information sufficient to meet verification requirements in Topic 5300, it may be used in lieu of other required documentation (e.g., IRS Form W-2); however, the information provided on the tax transcript often lacks certain details needed to fully evaluate stable monthly income.

**Example:**  
Individual rental property data, partnership and S corporation information are not clearly delineated in tax transcripts. Conversely, sole proprietorship information for Schedule C contained in a tax transcript may be an effective documentation alternative when reviewing the impact of a business loss incurred by self-employment.

IRS confirmation verifying transcripts are not yet available for the prior calendar year are always recommended, and in certain instances are required. Refer to **Section 5302.4(b)** for additional information about age of tax return requirements.

---

(d) When tax returns are required  

The Seller must obtain the Borrower’s most recent federal income tax return(s) for ce
