Source: Freddie Mac Seller/Servicer Guide  
Section: 5103.1 - Verification Documents and Documents in a Foreign Language  
Effective Date: 08/06/2025  

Condition #1:  
Verification documents.

(i) Verifications obtained directly by the originator.  
Verification documents must meet all of the following requirements:  
- Standard verification forms, which include the following, must be sent directly from the originator to the Borrower’s employer, financial institution, creditor or landlord, and the completed verification must be returned directly to the originator:  
  - Verification of employment (VOE)  
  - Verification of deposit (VOD)  
  - Direct verification of Tradelines and Noncredit Payment References, including Mortgage payment history and verification of rental payments  
- Original documents must not contain any alterations, erasures, correction fluid or correction tape.  
- The Seller must retain legible copies of the originals, including verifications obtained electronically or via facsimile transmission, in the Mortgage file.

(ii) Verifications provided by the Borrower.  
The Borrower may provide verification of income, employment and assets in the form of a photocopy (including a picture of a document), facsimile or electronic verification, which include online bank statements, investment account statements, employment and/or income statements.  
- The copies must have been made by the originator or the Borrower directly from the originals. Copies provided by any other party, such as the real estate agent or builder, are not acceptable.  
- If the Borrower has provided electronic verifications, photocopies or facsimiles of other verifications where the originator did not view and copy the original documents directly, the Seller is strongly encouraged to reverify the information through the quality control process.

---

Condition #2:  
Documents of foreign origin and documents in a foreign language.  
- All documents in the Mortgage file must be in English or translated into English in accordance with the requirements in Section 1201.9.  
- All foreign currency amounts must be converted to U.S. dollars. See Section 5501.3 for requirements when the source of funds needed for Closing Costs is, or otherwise originates from, asset(s) located outside the United States and its territories.
