Source: Freddie Mac Seller/Servicer Guide
Section: 5101.3 - Resubmission to Loan Product Advisor
Effective Date: 08/06/2025

Condition #1:
Resubmission to Loan Product Advisor required.
A Mortgage must be resubmitted to Loan Product Advisor prior to the Delivery Date, except as stated in Section 5101.3(b) below and Chapter 4602 for Construction Conversion and Renovation Mortgages, if any of the following apply:
- Information on the previous submission was not true, complete, or accurate.
- Any information submitted to Loan Product Advisor changes except for changes within the acceptable tolerances reflected below in Section 5101.3(b).
- The last submission to Loan Product Advisor was more than 120 days before the Note Date.
- The date of the Loan Product Advisor credit report(s) exceeds 120 days.
If resubmission of a Mortgage to Loan Product Advisor is after the Note Date, refer to the additional requirements in Section 5101.3(c).

Condition #2:
Resubmission to Loan Product Advisor not required (resubmission tolerances).
A change from the previous submission to Loan Product Advisor involving the following does not require resubmission.

Condition #2.1:
Debts and income.
- The monthly debt payment (including monthly housing expense per Section 5401.1) decreases.
- The income for any Borrower increases; however, for Home Possible® Mortgages when the income used to qualify the Borrower increases, resubmission is required.
- The income for any Borrower decreases and/or the monthly debt payment (including monthly housing expense) increases when both of the following apply:
  - The total new debt payment-to-income (DTI) ratio does not exceed 45%.
  - The total difference does not change the total DTI ratio by more than 3 percentage points.

Condition #2.2:
Assets and reserves.
- The amount of verified assets increases.
- The amount of verified reserves increases.
- The amount of verified reserves decreases to an amount that is no less than the reserves required to be verified on the Feedback Certificate.

Condition #2.3:
Loan amount changes on refinance Mortgages.

(A) Loan amount decreases.
- The loan amount decreases by no more than 5% on a refinance Mortgage and at the time of the most recent Loan Product Advisor submission mortgage insurance is not required on the Mortgage.
OR
- The loan amount decreases by no more than 5% on a refinance Mortgage, at the time of the most recent Loan Product Advisor submission mortgage insurance on the Mortgage is required, and:
  - The change does not impact the amount of mortgage insurance coverage.
  - The amount of the mortgage insurance premium collected by the Seller is based on the new loan amount and the Seller obtains a new mortgage insurance certificate.
Exception: When the loan amount decreased and the Mortgage qualified for an automated collateral evaluation (ACE) appraisal waiver or ACE+ PDR, the Seller must resubmit to Loan Product Advisor if the ACE appraisal waiver or ACE+ PDR offer was accepted.

(B) Loan amount increases.
- The loan amount increases by no more than $500 or up to 1% of the loan amount, whichever is less, and based on the new loan amount mortgage insurance is not required on the Mortgage.
OR
- The loan amount increases by no more than $500 or up to 1% of the loan amount, whichever is less, and based on the new loan amount mortgage insurance on the Mortgage is required, and:
  - The change does not impact the amount of mortgage insurance coverage.
  - The amount of the mortgage insurance premium collected by the Seller is based on the new loan amount and the Seller obtains a new mortgage insurance certificate.
Exception: When the loan amount increased and the Mortgage qualified for an ACE appraisal waiver or ACE+ PDR, the Seller must resubmit to Loan Product Advisor if the ACE appraisal waiver or ACE+ PDR offer was accepted.

Condition #2.4:
Interest rate reduction.
Freddie Mac does not require resubmission to Loan Product Advisor for Seller-Owned Modified Mortgages that are Home Possible Mortgages modified for the purpose of a reduction in interest rate of the First Lien Mortgage (see Section 4402.4(c)).

Condition #2.5:
Construction Conversion and Renovation Mortgages.
Refer to Section 4602.8(b) for additional changes not requiring resubmission to Loan Product Advisor for Construction Conversion and Renovation Mortgages.

Condition #3:
Resubmission to Loan Product Advisor after the Note Date.
If the Seller determines after the Note Date that the information entered into Loan Product Advisor was not true, complete, and accurate, except as otherwise permitted in Section 5101.3(b) above and unless otherwise prohibited below, the Mortgage must be resubmitted to Loan Product Advisor after the Note Date but prior to the Delivery Date.
The Seller must select “Post Closing Quality Control” as the Loan Processing Stage in Loan Product Advisor.

A Mortgage cannot be resubmitted to Loan Product Advisor after the Note Date if any of the following apply:
- Resubmission is more than 120 days after the Loan Product Advisor assessment expiration date displayed on the Feedback Certificate in effect as of the Note Date.
- A Borrower is being added or deleted or a change is being made to a Borrower’s last name or Social Security number.
- A new credit report company needs to be selected.
- The single or joint merged credit report indicator changes.
- The order of Borrowers changes on a joint merged credit request.
- The merged credit report number does not match the merged credit report number from the most recent complete transaction.

If the Mortgage cannot be resubmitted to Loan Product Advisor after the Note Date, the Mortgage must be manually underwritten and is considered a Non-Loan Product Advisor Mortgage.

Notes:
- The Risk Class and Documentation Level on the Last Feedback Certificate must be based on submission of accurate data.
- When resubmission is required, the Risk Class and/or Documentation Level may change.
